We're doing reduce, can someone tell me,
from the documentation,
what does this take?
It takes a list and it takes a callback
and then an initial value, right?
Okay, so,
All right, we'll skip the underscore part.
Okay, so the first thing we need to do is
we wanna loop through the list, right?
For every loop, what do we need to do?
>> We're gonna hold this value.
>> We need to save
the return value of what?
>> Of the callback.
>> So we call the callback with?
>> The value of the array at the index.
>> Yep, I'll just say arr[i], we know
what that means now, and what else?
>> We combine them.
>> In the previous value, right?
>> Yeah, in the previous value,
with the initial.
>> Yeah, or initial, depending, great.
And then once we do that,
we wanna save that value for
the next loop, and then what?
>> We return the total or
whatever it is that we get at the end.
>> Yeah, return the result,
which will be one value, right?
That's why it's reduced, it takes a list,
and it reduces it down to one thing.
All right, so let's try this.
So let's loop through a list,
let's just pretend that it's gonna
be, An array always.
And then,
while i is less than list.length,
come one, list.length, wow, okay, i++.
All right, so we wanna call the callback,
I wanna say callback, we're calling it,
we wanna pass some arguments.
We have our list at i, and
then some previous value or
something, right?
This is not returning, this isn't,
Referencing anything yet,
it's just a holding variable for now.
Or you can call this memo or
accumulator value, okay.
And then, we need to save that value
somewhere, probably not in the loop cuz
it would be reinitialized and
that would be against our whole thing.
So let's say we want,
>> Let memo equal initial.
>> Okay.
We can also give initial, Can we do this?
Anyone know?
It's like referencing itself.
I know, we'll just leave it there for
now and see what happens.
It's an adventure.
So we say, memo = callback with these,
applied, and then at the end,
we wanna return memo, something like that.
What do we think so far?
What do you think?
Anybody?
Let's run it as a team.
And then we're gonna have our function,
it's gonna take a value, and then sum,
All right.
Okay.
Are you guys ready to run it,
in your minds?
Who wants to go first?
How about, Jenny?
>> I'll start with the first line.
>> Yep, let's start with the fitst line.
>> [COUGH] Setting the variable to reduce.
>> Yep, so we just set up our
function definition to reduce, and
then what happens, Josh?
>> We call reduce with those parameters.
>> Yeah, we call reduce,
we pass it a list, we pass it a function.
So now, list is gonna be 1, 2, 3,
and our callback is gonna be some sum,
just for reference here, okay?
So I don't know if this works,
but either this or,
That's how we can do it,
right, either way.
So memo = initial or the first of our
list, and so we want that to be 1.
So in that case, we wanna start a little
later, right, we wanna skip the first one.
Actually, that's something we need to say.
What should we do there?
Something to consider is,
what happens when,
Let's say, I think what we wanna do,
what happens when the first
value becomes the initial value?
We should account for that,
we're not accounting for
that in this scenario, but we'll get
back to that, what error right here.
So we'll start at 0,
let's pass an initial.
So in the case where we have
an initial value, this is 0.
List[i] is what?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> 1, yeah, so
we pass 1 and then memo is what?
You're right.
Wait, no, let's list[i] is 1, and
then memo is gonna be 0, okay?
So we have 1 and then 0,
we're gonna go into our function.
v is 1, sum is 0, that is gonna return 1.
So memo is now 1.
Great, so now let's loop again,
we'll reset this value.
So i is now 1, list at 1 is 2 and
a memo is gonna be 1.
We do the same now memo is going to be 3.
And we wanna loop again,
i is now 2, second index is 3.
That is going to give us 3 and 3.
Those together it's gonna give us 6.
We break out of this and we return 6
Seems good for our first pass Any
bugs
>> This zero thing.
>> Yeah.
So what do we do when we
don't have an initial value?
Because if we just reset it right
then we'd be adding one plus one and
then our value would be seven.
You know what I mean?
So that's probably not what we want to do.
So we can just say
something like if initial,
Then let's just do this,
if initial then memo equals
initial else memo, April's I
think we should do it actually
in I think we should do it in here.
If, I would say if i=0,
and initial is not defined,
then memo equals list at i + at 0
And then we're gonna
increment i Like that.
How's that gonna turn out?
I, 0, and there's no initial value.
Well, Okay, looks a little messy.
There can be a more elegant solution here.
>> Meme of the undefined
if there's no national
>> Yeah.
>> So then and
not undefined.
>> That.
>> No, I mean, it's already
>> So if this is true
>> Yeah.
>> So and not.
Yeah, that's right.
So this would find, yeah.
You're right, and is undefined.
>> Also, you could just,
>> Right?
>> That's double negation, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
No, let's see.
Not true is false.
>> You can just remove that two
the double negation entirely for
the same thing couldn't happen.
>> What do you mean?
>> Well,
isn't memo equal to double negated memo?
>> Yeah.
>> It's false.
>> No we want this to be true.
>> Yeah.
>> Because of the and so they both need to
be true for it to enter into this block.
I actually have a better idea,
I like this better.
Okay, I'm happier with that.
Okay, What do we think?
Seem reasonable?
Probably we wanna pass more
things into the callback.
>> The original list?
>> Yeah, and that kinda thing, but
This is the basic functionality.
So I'm going to trace
it like we did before.
Or actually how about you guys
trace it since my uvula is swollen.
[LAUGH] All right.
Did you guys stress it before?
I feel like I'm going crazy.
You guys already traced it right?
Okay.
Well maybe I'll Do it this time, okay.
So we have a reduced function we're
calling it with two arguments or
three arguments really, we have an array,
and then we have a function.
This function just returns
the sum of two numbers.
And then an initial value.
So what we want to do is for
every value in
this list we wanna run
this function on it.
And we expect it to return one value,
that value gets passed into
the function as a second argument.
And then the next value gets passed
as the first so we have the value and
then we have the sum that will
get passed every single time.
In this case it'd be three
times that we'd go through.
And this is our initial value.
This tells us what we start with.
If we don't have an initial value,
we use the very first value in the array.
But we'll have an initial value,
it's a little bit easier
to conceptualize that way.
And then we'll do it without initial
value and see how that works.
Okay, so we called it.
So list is that array 1, 2, 3,
we have this callback function,
a summation function, and
then initial is zero.
So we start off memo, memos initial.
So that is gonna be 0, i0.
And there's a bug.
You guys see that bug?
If memo is 0.
>> Then that would be a negative 0.
>> Yeah.
JavaScript.
Okay, So
i is zero that's true memo is
not undefined because it's zero.
So we skip that we jump
into this else block.
We gonna call this callback
function with memo, which is zero.
Listed I Which is one, so
we're going to call it with one and zero.
Those are arguments.
Just so we have it to look at.
And here's a summation function.
I can also write this longer
hand if it's easier, but
we're just need to add one and
zero together.
And that's going to return one.
So memo is now updated to one.
Okay, And
we're gonna go now to the next loop.
So i is equal to 1 at this point,
i is not 0.
So we never even go into the left side.
Since this is false,
we'll just skip it entirely.
Go back and
then we'll get back in this else block.
List is what, let's say i is 2.
Yeah, are we following,
am I going too fast, okay?
And then memo is 1.
Okay, we add them together, that gives
us 3 and we update memo is now 3.
Now, we're gonna restart the loop,
i is now 2,
And, This is false.
We're gonna run this.
Listed i, Is 3,
memo is 3.
And so now we have 6 and
we update memo with 6.
We're gonna try to do the loop again but
it's gonna fail because 3
is not less than 3, right?
If we did that it would still run but
we don't wanna do that.
And since we went all through that,
it will return memo which
will return 6 down here, Okay?
Any questions about that?
No?
It's kind of a mind, it's surprisingly
simple for something so complicated.
You know what I mean?
All right, so now let's try
it without the initial value.
Okay, just switch it up a little bit.
So here's our lists, 2, 3, 5.
This is gonna be set to undefined
because we haven't passed anything to
initial, right?
We need to put it there.
>> We gonna start i is 0.
So i is 0.
I is 0 and memo is undefined.
So then we assign memo to list at 0.
Which is 2.
Then we loop again, now i is 1.
And then we skip this.
We go here, We're calling our callback
with our listed i which is,
whoosh, what was it again,
3 Plus memo, which is 2.
So then we assign memo
we update that to 5.
Okay, now i is 2.
We skip this one, we go here and
we want to do 5, right,
i list at 2 is 5 + 5 = 11
= 11
>> 5 + 5 = 11.
>> [LAUGH]
Not true, 10, I've just seen
you guys paying attention and
you weren't caught you.
So, We're done with this
loop cuz 3 is not less than 3,
And then we return 10.
Any questions?
No?
All right, so that is reduce.
And anyone got it running on their own?
>> Yeah
>> You just got that and go, nice.
>> I didn't put in that initial condition,
I was so like kind of up here.
>> Yeah, that's good.
All right.